In Airzlinshire, there is one unified currency among all the large kingdoms, pexena (peng-EH-nah). Coins of various value are in circulation, the 1p, 10p, 100p, 1kp, 10kp, and 100kp. There is the occasional 1Mp coin too, but those are not only quite valuable, but there are few of them in circulation. There is no denomination smaller than the pexena, so there are no coins for it.
# Coins
The primary method of money transfer for most small transactions. The coins all are the same size, round, and all have a hole in the center to be put on strings.
## Physical Specifications & Dimensions
The coins are pretty thin, coming in at about 1.4 mm, including the lip. They all have a 0.3 mm lip around the outside edge and a 0.2 mm lip along the edge of the hole in the center. These lips have square edges. The lip around the outer edge is 2 mm in width, and the one around the center hole is 1.5 mm. The hole is 4 mm in diameter. There are 3 raised ridges that are evenly spaced and run from the center lip to the outer one. The ridge is 0.2 mm at its tallest, and roughly is the shape of an extruded normal curve, having a width of 1 mm.
## Decorations
All decorations are replicated in each of the 3 sections, and all of them are raised from the coin's surface by 0.15 mm with ideally square edges. There is "pexena" (money), written in the [[Writing Systems And Phonemes#Writing Systems|Majel abugida]], it is written with the "x" syllable written out by itself, rather than part of the syllable for "pexe". The text is centered, and not curved to fit. The denomination amount is written above the text, in Majel, and is curved along the coin's edge. There is small symbol on the right side of the section, along the ridge. It is roughly 2-4 mm from the outer lip, and 1-2 mm from the ridge. Across from that there are tally marks with dots above them in fashion of the symbol for zero in Majel. There is one tally for each zero in the denomination. This means 1p will have none, 10p will have one tally, 100p: 2, 1kp: 3, 10kp: 4, etc.
## Storage
As mentioned before, all coins have a hole in them for storage on a string. This is a very common way to store coins for easy access. One common method is a wallet of sorts, with multiple strings for easy access to different denominations of coins. These usually come with anywhere from 4 to 10 separate strings. Many people, especially people with less money, will make their own.
# Ledgers
When dealing with very large transactions, one might opt to make it not with coins, but with a ledger. Especially if you make large transactions often. Ledgers are more of a transaction of money on paper, and are required to be proctored by someone from a bank, and for both parties to sign a receipt that logs the transaction. To have a ledger, you much make a down payment to a bank. A ledger acts like a debit card in one sense, or a checkbook. The party getting paid can take out the money by going to the payer's bank, or log the transfer to their own account if they use the same bank. Or if the bank they use and the payer's bank have a transferal agreement, the banks can transfer the money between themselves, and the user doesn't have to transfer the money themselves.

A bank may be government controlled or public, depending on the kingdom and it's government policies. But, all banks work for the government and are regulated by them to ensure they aren't being fraudulent.

This is a list of the largest banks in each kingdom:

| Kingdom | Bank            | Gov. |
| ------- | --------------- | ---- |
| Monus   | Pexenato' bipei | YES  |
| Solus   | Pexenato' meke  | NO   |
## Seals
As a form of signature, something called a seal is used. It is not a wax seal used on envelopes, but a small cylindrical stamp with an intricate design. Each registered person must have at least one seal, along with each entity that has the right to sign a paper (for example, a family may have a seal that indicates that the paper is signed by the family as an entity. another example is a government department). One entity may normally have up to 4 unique seals. Exceptions can be made with sufficient reasoning. To apply for a new seal, you can fill out a seal application from your government and submit it to wherever your government accepts them. To apply for extra seals (over 4), contact your government.

If your seal is stolen, you may apply to have it discontinued. You may submit a seal discontinuation application to your government. These require you to sign with 2 registered seals, to prevent fraud. It is highly recommended that an entity has at least 3 seals registered for this reason, and to fill out a seal discontinuation form as soon as you can after a seal's integrity has been compromised.

Many rich organizations or families have a ritual of burning or branding an individual's seal onto the thenar of the hand. This makes it impossible to steal. This process usually includes making the area raised. Learning how to keep the ink off the rest of the hand and off the paper is a skill that is learned by these people when they are children. The process is extremely painful, and the raised are on the palm is often a nuisance. These factors are mitigated by doing the operation while the child is still developing: they learn how to live with it with no trouble.