#History #Peoples #SimpleEra #CopperEra #MetalsEra #EarlyMajikEra 

The history of civilization has many eras, each one started by a major shift.

## The Simple Era
The Simple Era spanned from possibly before year 0 to around year 19,968 (.l.. lll. .... ....). The planet had just begun to thaw from the [[Great Ice Age]], allowing people to live out of caves year round. People had just learned how to plant food, and made the first tribes. These peoples were located near the equator on the western coast of the Solus Continent ([[Livable Region]]). Over time, as the world thawed more, they migrated north and south. Tribes' borders were very lose and for the most part, people got along well across tribes. Everyone was simply trying to survive the harsh conditions of a post-ice age.

The language [[Gar]] was the strong lingua franca at the time and it's invention allowed people to communicate. The earliest surviving written records are in the form of clay tablets that were accidentally fired.
## The Copper Era
The Copper Era extends from roughly 19,968 to 22016 (.l.l .ll. .... ....). The discovery of copper was groundbreaking, and altered society heavily. Over the course of 2048 (.l.. .... ....) years, copper was used to make tools, weapons, some structures, and much more.

The invention of copper farming tools led to much more efficient farming. This led to communities getting larger and turning into cities. The cities were quite close together since there was a mountain range to the east, ocean to the west, and people could only live as far north and south as the ground had thawed. The livable land was not super large, and farmers were disputing over land. This led the cities' leaders to come together and form a kingdom. This is [[First Kingdom]].
## The Metals Era
The discovery of Bronze and Iron happened in quick succession, both of them around year 22016 (.l.l .ll. .... ....). Bronze was much better for working than copper, and it was stronger, so people switched as quickly as they could. Iron was even stronger, but was a massive pain to work, so it's use was not as quickly taken on. Iron was also very difficult to find as the only places known at the time to have it were the [[Windy Cliffs]], a notoriously dangerous place to get to. The quantities of iron in those areas was very low, too, making the act of collecting iron ore a dangerous and mostly unfruitful task. Despite this fact, the utility of iron was not something leaders were willing to pass up. Tensions raised among the cities when the Capital canceled all iron exports despite the agreement that all cities must share all surplus materials. The other cities increased mining efforts in order to keep the valuable metal coming in. When the Capital started fighting off anyone else who tried to mine at the cliffs, a massive civil war broke out ([[The First Kingdom Civil War]]) and [[First Kingdom]] fell gloriously in year 23002 (.l.l l..l ll.l l.l.).
## The Majik Era
A few years before [[The First Kingdom Civil War]], after the iron oppression by the Capital, a person figured out that they could make their fire hotter using their mind. They simply needed to make certain movements and imagine certain things and they could turn a simple fire into a raging blaze. They brought this to the leader of the city, claiming it could be a learned skill, and over the next few years, mastered their majik and taught some soldiers how to use it too. This was the discovery of [[Light Majik]]. Using this, they enabled the small armies of all the other cities to overpower the Capital, despite them outnumbering and out skilling them while also having much better equipment due to owning all the iron.

This marked the beginning of the Early Majik Era, a time of leaps and bounds in majik discovery. The cities all constantly fought for control of the [[Windy Cliffs]] and it's iron. It kept changing hands with new discoveries in majik leading to new war strategies.

Overpopulation was a major problem and there was simply not enough space to feed all the people crammed into the [[Livable Region]]. All the cities were investing in exploration, people traveling north and south to find a way around the mountain, west to see if anything's there, or east, trying to go over the mountain. Not many people made it back, and those who did returned so they could survive.
## The Exploration Era
The Exploration Era begins when civilization finally was able to expand past the [[Livable Region]]. The frost had thawed enough to go over the natural mountain pass to the east side of the mountain range. This led to a mass migration as people went out to start a new life. Some time after this, a boat sails to the [[Central Continent]], sets up camp for a few days, and sails back.
## The Reform Era
With people spread out around the world, 