#Majik 
# Overview
In [[Airzlinshire]], majik is unique (and complicated). After reading a bit of fantasy, you find that magic often falls into some categories. These are the familiar ways that magic works. Things like magic through incantation (a phrase that initiates a spell) like in Harry Potter, or sorcery. There are some 'methods' of magic that don't fit into any of the categories typically seen. This was my goal with magic in Airzlinshire. I wanted a completely unique and interesting system of magic. This started by calling it majik, said the same as magic but spelled different. I will be using the term 'majik' to refer to magic in Airzlinshire and 'other magic' to refer to any common systems of magic seen in other fantasy. The ins and outs of majik's uniqueness are described in this page while the details of it's function have been split up as they're quite lengthy and detailed.

# The Ins and Outs
To start, majik is element based. There are 10 primary elements: [[Light Majik]], [[Dark Majik]], [[Life Majik]], [[Air Majik]], [[Water Majik]], [[Earth Majik]], [[Empath Majik]], [[Cronus Majik]], [[Material Majik]], [[Conversion Majik]], and [[Weaving Majik]].

# It's All About Energy
Each element has it's own form of majik energy. All majik is is the manipulation of majik energy. Unlike many types of magic, majik follows the law of conservation of mass and energy. In Airzlinshire, majik energy is the basis of everything. If you take the majik energy out of something, it becomes [[Plain Matter]]. But, depleting all of the majik energy from something is nearly impossible. For example if something is living, it has life energy. Once it loses all it's life energy, it is dead. In this case, life energy has a way of turning into other types of majik energy with time. That's why things die of old age.

## Measuring Majik Energy
In order to measure majik, there are a few [[Units of Measure]]. Some of the most common ones are the **gako**, which measures majik power; **diako**, which measures majik density; and **seko**, which measures majik flow rate. They are derived from SI units.

### Mixing Elements
There are some sub-elements that can be created by mixing two (or rarely, more than two) elements. Some examples are death majik, which is a mix of life and dark majik. It's important to know that there are no _evil_ forms of majik. There are only different ones. In Airzlinshire, there's no idea of _evil_ majik. All elements and their combinations are considered as equal in the morality regard. It's understood that it's the people that make the difference. A good example of this is again, death majik. A common use of it is for pest control. In fact, the main difference between life and death majik is that life majik specializes in precise and skilled giving of life energy and is poor at taking life energy while death majik is better at taking life energy than giving it. Someone who specializes in life majik would be bad at pest control because they might also accidentally take life energy from other living things like a larger animals that are close by. They would also take longer.
# How do People Use it
When someone uses majik, they are causing *majik manipulations*. This is when you manipulate majik power to affect the world around you. Making manipulations can look like moving an object that has some type of majik within it. It can also look like heating up a pan by diffusing the energy from the majik in the pan.

People in Airzlinshire can have connections to elements. If someone has a weak connection to light majik for example, they will be able to manipulate a small amount of light energy with a low level of precision. With practice they can strengthen their connection to light majik and the stronger the connection, the more majik energy they can control at once and with more precision. The one big drawback is that the stronger connection you have with on type of majik, the more difficult it is to make and improve your connection with other elements.

Obviously one major use for majik is for combat, but there's much more to it than that. Unlike some types of magic that use spells, majik merely manipulation of energy. The possibilities are practically endless. As mentioned in Mixing Elements, death majik can be used for pest control. A few other examples are:
- Air and water majik are commonly used to propel sail boats. Air majik can push air into the sail, and water majik can be used as steering or propulsion aid.
- Light majik is used to heat houses and other buildings. Dark majik is used for cooling.
- A combination of light and air majik is used for lighting fires. The air majik increases the oxygen content and the light majik provides heat for combustion. It's also possible to use earth majik to levitate some some fuel to create a "fireball". 
- Air energy can be used to create a wall of a vacuum so that no sound can pass though. This is a trick that requires a strong connection to air majik.
- Empath majik can be used to soothe someone's emotions, or break up fights. 
That was just a few of the simple ones, nearly anything you can think of can be done with enough skill and power.
## Casting Skill
Not only does one have to increase their affiliation with an element to increase the amount of power they can use, they also have to work on their casting skill. This is the ability to cast precisely and efficiently. One must develop the skill of manipulation of majik to be more precise. The more precise you are, the more control you have over your majik and the smaller you can manipulate things. The more efficient you are, the less majik energy loss you have when you manipulate.
### Distance
Distance effects the amount of majik power one has to use to make majik manipulations. The amount of energy increases by some percent per meter. Majik distance efficiency is not something that is easily measured, you have to go to a majik measuring facility to get it measured.
## Material Efficiency
One of the most common types of majik manipulation is movement. One of the factors that affects one's ability to move objects around is the object's majik efficiency. This is the percent efficiency of energy going into the object and kinetic energy coming out. This is based on both the majik density and the ratio of the majik element(s) in question to other elements in the object. An object with an incredibly high majik density and with no other elements in it would have a very high efficiency.
## Movements
When casting (creating majik manipulations), people make hand or arm movements. There are a precious few people who have learned how to cast with other, more subtle movements. The complexity of the movement usually corresponds to the complexity of the majik manipulations it's for. There are stories of people who could cast with no movement of any kind.
Most majik users inherit movements very like those who taught them. You can sometimes identify what institution someone was taught majik at by watching their movements.