#Drug 

> [!caution] 
> Topics discussed on this page may not be suitable for all readers.

A line of addictive drugs called Hormonal Orgasm Inducers are meant to cause powerful and fast orgasms by tricking the body into thinking it has just received reproductive fluid from a non-host person (see [[Sex#Orgasm]]). There are 2 main ways to achieve this: the reproductive fluid type, and the direct hormonal type.
## Reproductive Fluid Type
This type involves producing a substance that is similar enough to reproductive fluid that the body produces the hormones that trigger a hormonal orgasm. This type of drug can only have effect when in the uterus, but there are multiple ways of getting it there.

This type of hormonal orgasm drug can be taken in a few ways.
- Syringe injection. This involves inserting a syringe into the vaginal canal so that the tip pokes through the uterus opening and then injecting the drug right into the uterus. This method is difficult to do properly, but has a nearly 100% success rate if done right. It is easy to miss the uterus opening inject the drug into the vaginal canal. The drug has a chance to make it into the uterus still, causing a delayed reaction.
- Needle injection. This involves sticking a needle into the uterus from the outside and injecting the drug through it. This method is almost never used as it is extremely difficult to do right and has a high risk.
- Pill insertion. This involves inserting a dried version of the drug in a pill into the uterus through the uterus opening where it will dissolve and saturate with water. In order to make sure there is enough fluid to saturate the drug completely, most people need to stimulate themselves so their body produces lubricant. This is a popular method for many people since it is easy to do, though the need for stimulation makes it difficult to be discreet, and it does have multiple failure modes. The pill can not dissolve properly, or the pill escapes from the uterus and dissolves in the vaginal canal (the drug has a chance to find it's way into the uterus from here, still resulting in orgasm, just delayed). Pill insertion also can give more control over the nature of the effect of the drug than any other method. Some pills are multi-release, meaning they have multiple layers that dissolve in order with some time between.

One issue with all these methods, though syringe injection the least, is that to reach hormonal orgasm, enough of the drug needs to be present in the uterus.
## Direct Hormonal Type
This type includes producing or harvesting the hormones that result in a hormonal orgasm directly and taking those. The direct hormonal type has more control over the nature of the hormonal orgasm than the reproductive fluid type.

This type of drug can be taken in multiple ways.
- Needle injection. This involves injecting the drug into the blood, usually in the pit of the arm. It is fast acting, taking about 10 to 20 seconds of delay. This method is prone to spreading disease if the needles aren't clean. This method usually results in more intense and shorter lasting orgasms, like a real one, or ones induced by the reproductive fluid type.
- Pill ingestion. This involves swallowing a pill that contains the hormones. This is by far the easiest method to do, taking little effort. Hormonal orgasms from this method can take many different forms, and can be tuned by the manufacturers of the pill to be different intensities and lengths of time. Though these can't be nearly as intense as the needle injection method. The delay can vary from 15 to 30 minutes, and it varies not only per pill, but every time it's taken. This delay and unpredictability can be a downside for many people.
- Pill insertion. This is very similar to the pill insertion method for the reproductive fluid type. It involves inserting a pill into the uterus through uterus opening where it dissolves in the uterus. The organ that creates orgasmic hormones is near the uterus and so when the hormones dissolve into the blood, some travels up the same paths. This method is between needle injection and pill ingestion in intensity, delay, and duration. It can be unco to insert a pill into one's uterus and 