#Monus #Location #MountainRange

The Monus Mountains were made by the founders of the kingdom to protect it from the outside world. They are by far the tallest mountains in the world reaching 11,873 meters at the highest peak and 9,621 meters at the lowest point of crossing. The mountains were brought up by powerful majik users from long ago. The amount of majik power needed to make this mountain range is beyond what is capable by the most powerful users today. There are multiple theories as to how they were made. One theory is that there was just a user of majik whose capability was massively beyond anything observed today. Another theory is that there was a group of majik users who were on par with the most powerful of today and built it up over many years. Though, the fact that the stone doesn't come in layers and is homogenous throughout suggests that the whole mountain range was made in one action. We do know that the mountain was made by majik as it has unnaturally shaped faces and peaks. It clearly has not had time to be eroded. This also leads to very interesting watershed of the mountains. They have very little foliage cover and so they produce very large amounts of runoff into the lang below, and any substantial rainfall would cause instant flooding. Though this is not much of a problem as there is hardly any rain in [[Upper Monus]] and [[Lower Monus]] has the ocean to run off into. On top of that, the [[The Great Monus River#Lower Monus River Expansion|Lower Monus River Expansion]] increased the capacity of the river, making it a possible drain for flood protection.