#Event #FirstKingdom #MetalsEra


The Capital of the [[First Kingdom]], [[Center City]], broke the terms of the [[Ziiv Contract]] by attacking iron mining parties from other cities in the kingdom. Iron, being the one of most valuable resources at the time, was only known to exist at the [[Windy Cliffs]]. The leader of [[Center City]] wanted complete control of iron, and wanted to build up their army with it. The other cities, expectedly, did not enjoy this. First, they were simply told to mine less iron, and now their miners get attacked. Not only will they not have any of the super useful iron, but they don't know if they can trust [[Center City]].

There was little protest from the other cities for 2 primary reasons. First, they didn't want to dissolve the kingdom as it was beneficial for everyone, and [[Center City]] was upholding the rest of the contract. And Second, now that [[Center City]] had so much iron, their military power far outstrips the rest of the cities combined. There was little use for military before this, after all.

Tensions were high, so when [[Center City]] started levying taxes on the other cities, people were furious. They would have fought back if they could, but they were threatened with iron swords and armor. Their bronze was no match.

After a few months of military rule by their capital, a craftsman from [[Rion City]] discovered that they could use [[Light Majik]] to increase the intensity of a flame. They went to the leader and proposed that it was a learned skill and that if they could teach the army, that might be the edge they need to win. The leader agreed to let the craftsman teach a small group of soldiers, and within 3 weeks, they could also do the same thing, and more. With hope now, those soldiers taught more, and more, until the whole army could use basic [[Light Majik]].

Along with the discovery of majik, a new way of writing had been taking traction outside of [[Center City]], [[Majel]]. It was in fact a whole new language. It was easier to learn to write with and so more people could use it. This enabled more people to communicate and coordinate. Ideas and plans spread quickly. Additionally, there wasn't enough time for people from [[Center City]] to learn how to read this new language and despite their best efforts, they didn't make sense of it soon enough.

One morning, all planned out, majik using soldiers from [[Rion City]] spearheaded 2 attacks, one from the north and one from the south. They used light majik to burn Vag's soldiers' eyes and set the city ablaze with the hottest fire anyone from Vag had ever seen. They didn't leave anything left. Lam soldiers took shifts making the fire hot until the city was nearly gone by evening the next day.