
## Seyla:

It’s hard for me to put into words, a lot of the dysphoria comes from weird primal feelings from deep within, the typical you are trans feelings that nobody has an explanation for. But a lot of it, especially as I further along my social transition, comes from the association each name now has. My old name was the old boy me and frankly very depressed me, Seyla marked a new beginning where I felt like I was actually getting somewhere with my life. Hearing someone call me deadname is just a reminder that I’m not a girl and people don’t see me that way, hearing my real name is the opposite and makes me feel happy and supported

## Lily:

well, I've hated my first deadname ever since I was a little kid actually, though I don't remember exactly why that was. I remember I would sit at my desk in elementary school and think about other names I preferred from books I'd read, playing with androgynous and somewhat feminine names. I'd always hated how masculine I was meant to be, and never liked doing sports or my name. the only way I can think of to describe how I feel about my deadname is disgust and fear. when I get called my deadnmae I feel a certain amount of fear and sadness, both at knowing I have to correct them and cause conflict, and because it is literally painful to hear that name. I can't quite describe the exact feeling it is but when I read old msgs with my deadname in them I feel lonely and pained. about my recent name change, I've lamented how I felt slightly off with "alex", never being able to see it as the feminne name it can be, and fearing that others think the same way. I would try out other names, sasha, lily, puppy, and a few more japanese names I can't remember anymore to get exposure. to live with either of those wrong names is isolating, lonely, painful, and confusing. I hope I answered your question?

